# Environments Unity Project

## Overview
This project is a Unity-based VR application that presents stories in audio-only, visual-only, and audiovisual formats within an immersive virtual environment, capturing participant retellings for analysis in two studies. The system uses gesture based interactions to navigate through the experience.
### Experimental Study
This research explores how age, storytelling modality, and environmental congruence influence participants' story retellings. The recorded retelling is analyzed across multiple speech dimensions, including intonation, tone, pitch, and semantic structure. These dimensions are then compared across participants and stories for quantitative evaluation of narrative patterns.
### Analytical Study
The study investigates the ability of LLMs to replicate human retellings. Each retelling is converted into a semantic vector, capturing key speech features as values in dimensions. These representations are compared against retellings generated by LLMs to assess their alignment with human cognitive patterns.

## Features


## Repository Structure
```
├── .vscode
├── Assets
│   ├── Materials
│   ├── Objects
│   ├── OfficialAsset
│   ├── Packages
│   ├── Samples
│   ├── Scenes
│   ├── TextMesh Pro
│   ├── Video
│   ├── XR
│   ├── XRI
│   ├── facePlayer.cs                    # Makes videoplayer follow participant view (not used currently)
│   ├── HandGestureDetector.cs           # Hand gesture debugger tool (not used currently)
│   ├── HandTrackingVisualizer.cs        # Visualizes hand tracking data for debugging
│   ├── MicManager.cs                    # Used for debugging mic input
│   ├── MicRecorder.cs                   # Handles recording and saving mic audio
│   ├── NuGet.config
│   ├── packages.config
│   ├── SequenceScript.cs                # Controls the flow of stories and environments for participants
├── Packages
├── .gitignore
├── README.md
```

## Installation
1. Clone repository
```
git clone https://github.com/tevinpark/LLM_BJT_ENV.git
```
> Requires 750+ mb of storage
2. Download Unity Editor version 2023.3.47f1 from [Unity Downloads Archive](https://unity.com/releases/editor/archive)
3. Open folder in Unity Editor
> Takes around 5-10 minutes to open project for first time  
> Unity automatically installs all required packages

## Usage
### Run the project in Unity Editor
1. Select `SampleScene.unity` in `Assets/Scenes/` folder
2. Press the play button at top center of screen
### Run the project in Quest headset
1. Enable Developer Mode on Quest
2. Download and extract ADB (Android Debug Bridge) from [Android Developer Downloads](https://developer.android.com/tools/releases/platform-tools)
3. Connect Quest via USB and allow USB Debugging on Quest
4. Check Device Connection (Optional) 
```
adb devices
```
Expected output if device is detected:
```
List of devices attached
1W23456ABCDE    device
```
> If it shows "unauthorized", approve the USB debugging prompt on Quest
> If no device appears, check USB connection and ensure Developer Mode is enabled on Quest
5. Install APK onto Quest
```
adb install /path/to/app.apk
```
6. In Quest, navigate to Libary -> Unknown Sources and open the app

## Dependencies
- **Unity XR Interaction Toolkit**  
  Unity Technologies. GitHub repository.  
  [https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/XR-Interaction-Toolkit](https://github.com/Unity-Technologies/XR-Interaction-Toolkit)

- **Unity XR Hands**  
  Unity Technologies. GitHub repository.  
  [https://github.com/needle-mirror/com.unity.xr.hands](https://github.com/needle-mirror/com.unity.xr.hands)

## External Resources
